---
layout: post
title: My Lumiere research paper
---

# Abstract
There are nearly 100 billion neurons in the human brain, with nearly 100 trillion connections, working very specific tasks in order to proceed with the proper functioning of the brain. These neurons are organized into specific brain regions, often defined by their functions or what processes they contribute towards. The Amygdala and Hippocampus are two brain regions which contribute significantly towards our emotions and their regulation, and are often influenced by various external factors in our environment. Music is an external factor that has been long known to affect human emotions. The effect music has on the functioning of these regions is one interesting lens into understanding how environmental factors can shape or change the brain and subsequent behaviour. Much of this research in humans has been done on neurotypicals, or people that function “normally” as defined by society. There is comparatively less research pertaining to the effect of music on the brain or behaviour in people with autism spectrum disorders (ASD), a set of human disorders with a hallmark of emotional processing issues. Taking a comparative approach, neurotypicals vs. ASD, would allow for two general sets of important understanding: further insight into how the environment affects the brain and behaviour under both normal and pathological conditions; and elucidating important and significant differences in ASD at a variety of levels.

```This research paper is currently undergoing the publication process at the Young Scientist’s Journal (YSJ)```